The following is a long and detailed prompt. Please ingest it carefully and organize it and keep track of the to-dos carefully so we don't lose track of all the tasks I want accomplished.
1)To put back the instrument, we'll need that for the ranges.
2) for the articulation selection let's keep the selection possibility but for now we'll just have one selection and that will be Spiccato and that is cc 0 15 that should be the only selection in the menu and the default. The ranges are as follows Violin G3 to F7 Viola C3 to A6 Cello C2 to B5. And then just like in the one-shots, make sure there's a little text hint of the range in the pitch, near the pitch. It's like a little bit of static text, and also the checks, so if I put in a pitch out of range, there should be a warning or a stop.
3)Like in the sustained tone model if the pitch mode is glissando There is a Gliss pulldown. For this UI, let's call it GlissMode and we'll have the same choices. Linear, Curve, Inverse Curve. Let's make Curve the default and just confirm, but I believe the rule is we're going to go from StartPitch to EndPitch no matter what, but then put some sort of warning or verification check there in case the Start and End Pitches are going in the opposite direction from the choice, like from a Curve or Inverse Curve. And then add this to the standard, it might already be there, but the change of name to gliss mode from gliss, and then those three choices which may already be there, but anyways, this number three should be the standard.
4) For the glissando pitch handling in the MIDI, this should be a lot like the pizzicato tremolo glissando. So have a look at that one and just validate with the standards what I said. I think we talked about this in the standards, so I can't remember. So since this one is re-articulated continuously, the note, there's a bunch of note on values. Yeah, I believe you did provide me analysis. So you can just look at the analysis in the AI score built-in document or maybe MIDI music generation document. But it's along the lines of, if it's curve or inverse curve, you're going to take the range of pitches and evaluate the Y value at each, the normalized or interpolated Y value at each note on time. and then use the pitch bend and correct pitch selection to dial in the right pitch at that point in time. Again, please look in the documents and then clarify any of this, or if there's any conflict with what I'm saying and what's documented, just flag that up for me. Linear will be similar, it'll just follow a different Y value that's linear and again you'll establish what pitch the articulation should be at and then use pitch bend in the appropriate note value to get that articulation at the right pitch.
5)You can put back the volume mode So we'll have a dynamic 1 and a dynamic 2 and Then the volume mode will have curve inverse curve steady and linear and You can check the sustained totem system But I believe that we're always going from dynamic 1 to dynamic 2 And if there's any conflict with volume choice Then There'll be a warning But just validate that I'm not sure that's 100% correct And then could you rename the label to volume mode instead of just volume and then update the standard as well? We won't be using CC7 here, but just velocity values, and we'll use the velocity values in the standards, the MIDI music generation standards, which is sort of a fudged velocity. So, for curve and inverse curve, we'll use dynamic 1 and dynamic 2 as the absolute values. So if the curve goes from 0 to 10, 0 is dynamic 1 and 10 is dynamic 2, and you'll interpolate the curve y in between. If the curve is 8 to 10 still, 8 will be dynamic 1 and 10 will be dynamic 2, and you'll interpolate in between. and then you'll use the established velocity standards so i believe it's for p and below 95 and then for f f f and above 127 and then a few ones in between which should already be there and you'll just change the velocity of the notes accordingly Linear, of course, will be similar, just following a different curve. For the Steady, you'll just use Dynamic 1, and then, just like with the Sustained Tone System, the pipeline should know to drop the hairpin and the second dynamic for the Steady State Volume. We don't need number 7, velocity, because that will come from the dynamic selection according to our standard.
6) For number 9 and 10, the density and humanize, The sliders and scale is fine., but can you look in my save score 1996-accelModel Starting around second 75, there's a sequence, a bunch of accelerations and decelerations. Can you look at those and determine what kind of density and humanized settings are used for those? Just to establish the default, let's go with the most common density and humanization settings for the default for this new UI. And then add these defaults to the standard, as well as if we haven't captured these humanization and density settings in the UI layout standards, let's capture those.
7) I want to add a black color swatch to the color swatches, and I want to add an opacity number box. You can look in the line wedge system. There is an opacity box, and the default is 0.30. You can look in the line wedge system, and the default is 0.30. And then for the number 14, the Curve Adjust, this is a post-curve adjustment UI section. Let's also add opacity there, so if I want to change the opacity, I can.
8) This one is important. Last night we did a bunch of work on the SVG models and we did some tests and we established the way the models should work and there is in fact a staff variant for each of the different staffs and there is a pitch mode so we can actually use the appropriate pitches and The feathered beam position was also established, so it rests above the staff, but below when there's ledger lines, I believe. But that's all been established, so make sure we find that work, and if you can't find it, let me know, and I'll help find that work. But that's all been established, we know which models to use and how to do it, in addition to, for example, eliminating the hairpin on single pitches. There's a bunch of things established, in other words, so make sure we find this work, and if you can't find all those details, let me know, and I'll help. So there is a staph variant, but I see that row one still has the cleft, so that's fine. 
9) I like the accelerate or accelerando versus the accelerando indicator, that's good.
10) I discussed the feathered beam placement in the prompt above or in the I guess step 8 above. We already established where it should be and have single SVG models or templates that combine both the pitch information and the feathered beam indicator. and they actually have run the test SVG so make sure we find that work.
11)  For the note duration, look at the analysis I asked for in number 6 above and do additional analysis about, I guess, the note frequency. So I am considering making the note duration 100 milliseconds instead. That might work a little bit better. But I don't want to increase the note duration if the typical acceleration or deceleration creates notes that run into each other. Or perhaps you can recommend something here. Maybe there is a fallback rule. Maybe we use 100 millisecond note durations unless the notes are colliding and then we reduce the note durations to 50 milliseconds or as appropriate. So I want to make sure notes don't collide because if notes are overlapping they won't re-articulate. So that's the priority, to make sure that each of the notes in an accel or D-Cell will articulate.
So please read this entire prompt very carefully in some detail and Retain all the steps and to do's and their particular details so we don't lose any of this work and If you need to clarify, please do so And Then once this work is done or In your initial evaluation whichever one Let me know if I left anything out or there's additional things to consider When we've built the plan, I want to see the notation and the curve in the score so we can adjust the SVG scaling and placement.
post - 12) Actually, after this is all done, let's capture a to-do to introduce an octave transposition glyph and a rule when to use it, but after we've finished the system, then we can revise it with this new glyph.
